CHAPTER 2: BUILD ON THE ROCK OF OBEDIENCE TO JESUS; OTHERWISE, YOU WILL FALL
Matthew 7: 24-27. "Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I will liken him to a wise man who built his house upon the rock, and the rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on the house, and it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock. "
But everyone who hears these sayings of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand, and the rain descended, the floods came, and the wind blew and beat on the house, and it fell and great was its fall." Many people who have lived since the times of Jesus have never seen their houses fall. This scripture in the Gospel of Matthew, part of the Sermon on the Mount, seems to be a false warning.
esus went to the effort of saying it you don t obey my teachings if you don't obey my commandments, and you don't obey the meanings of my parables, you're building your house upon the sand, and when hard times come, you're going to fall. Ther Joesn't seem to have been a storm upon the people of God. But you can rest assured that there have been hard times and difficult times through the centuries. You can be sure that justice is God's and Jesus's true word. The word of God can be trusted t be fulfilled. This is like a prophetic word and has been fulfilled in history a few times. Jesus is talking here at the end of the Sermon on the Mount; the Sermon on the Mount went on for at least a day, and the disciple Matthew summarised some of the things that Jesus said on the day.
Years afterwards, Matthew sat down and wrote out some of the commands of Jesus and some of the teachings of Jesus and recorded this day's speaking in three chapters of the Bible. When Jesus said this thing, whoever hears these sayings of mine and does them, I'll liken him to a wise man who built his house upon the rock; he meant it. When Jesus said this, he meant this is true of everything he taught. You may wonder where I take licence to say that; where do I get the idea that Jesus was talking about everything he had to say? I learned that through a revelation of the Holy Spirit. This also was something that Matthew knew also.
According to Matthew's understanding, Jesus had 54 parables that he also told. Matthew has a book called "The Narrow Way, The Parables of Jesus Made Simple." You can download that book and read about his parables and how to apply them to your life. Download it here.
https://tinyurl.com/3k9zmnh7
Jesus didn't come to earth to bring forth teachings and have them recorded in the Gospels just for people to ignore them. They were not recorded for people just to read what he taught and then go on with life without regard for them. Understandably, people would read the parables and not fully understand them, then not necessarily apply them to their lives, building their house upon the sand. It's understandable if you don't understand the parables of Jesus. You may not be able to apply them to your life because you lack understanding of what they mean, and that's understandable. But it's not understandable now that I've quoted Matthew's book on the parables. If you choose not to buy that book, you're entering a place where Jesus would call you a foolish virgin, or Jesus would call you a foolish person who's built their house upon the sand. The same is true of the people who read this book and go through the details of each of these commandments and understand them that Jesus taught, then don't apply them. The people who read this book need to study this book and make sure they apply what it reaches.
They need to choose to read this book and fully comprehend the commandments of Jesus, then practically, purposely go forth and obey these commands. People who read this book, and choose to disregard what it says, are people whom Jesus refers to as foolish people and fools. When hard times come in the world in the coming years, and the judgments of God start to be unleashed against the wicked, the people who chose not to pay attention to Jesus and his words will have their lives fail.
Whether individuals profess their faith in Jesus through their lifestyle, attend church regularly on Sundays, or engage in religious rituals, it is not enough. Even knowing about Jesus's parables and commandments is insufficient if they choose not to obey these teachings. Such individuals, who refuse to abide by the parables and commandments, will face grave consequences. When trials and tribulations arrive, when difficult times descend upon the earth, their lives will crumble like houses built on unstable foundations. They will find themselves without spiritual protection, exposed and vulnerable!
It's like a person purchasing a house, paying off a house, and not paying for house insurance. It's like you're building your house with a builder, and you're paying hundreds of thousands of dollars to purchase your land and build your house, and then you don't go to the extra expense of a couple of thousand dollars a year to pay insurance for your house. It's like a storm will come to your house, a hurricane will come, a tornado will blow down your house, and you are destroyed because you are not insured. Living a Christian life without obeying the commands of Jesus and participating in the meanings of the parables of Jesus leaves you vulnerable. It may be true that there may not have been many things in the past that affected Christians yet that you know of, and you may be betting the wrong way not doing anything because these verses clearly say that if you don't build your house upon the rock, then you're not in a safe position.
Luke 6;47-49 says, "Whoever comes to me and hears my sayings and does them, I will show you what he is like. He is like a man building a house who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. When the flood came, the stream beat vehemently against the house and could not shake it, for it was founded on the rock. But he who heard and did nothing is like a man who built his earth without a foundation, against which the stream beat vehemently, and immediately it fell. And the ruin of the house was great."
This is Luke saying the same sort of thing, thing warning that you need to build your life upon the teachings of Jesus, that your very life should be built on the foundation of the teachings of Jesus. It would be best if you diligently started applying my teachings practically.
You should diligently practice the law of love, operate in the Gospel of love, and act according to everything Jesus taught.