CHAPTER 4: FOLLOW JESUS
Matthew 4:19 says, "Then He said to them, "Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men."
He particularly said this to Peter. He once told them to let down their net for a catch, and they made a good catch. They'd been fishing all night and made a good catch, and Peter recognised that Jesus was holy and a holy man. Jesus gave him a commission and said, follow me.
You may not understand, but in the Old Testament, Jewish boys used to go to a synagogue and be trained by the rabbi. They had to be able to recite the first four books of the Torah, the first four books of the Bible at a certain age, 14, Matthew believes.
When they could recite the four books correctly and do other things, they had what was called the Bar Mitzvah, and they had a transition into becoming an adult. The rabbi who had attended to all the youth in his town and spent time with them, training them in righteousness and the law. He had certain students that stood out and would make a good prospect for being a rabbi. Occasionally, the rabbi chose a student or two and said to him, "Follow me."
When the rabbi chose the student and said, "Follow me," the student wouldn't work with his father anymore in his father's trade but would leave his father's business and be indentured as an apprentice to the rabbi. He would grow from age 14 in instruction to age 30 when he could practically live a life being a rabbi. It's very interesting that at the same age, Jesus started in ministry as a rabbi at the same time because 30 was the minimum age you could be a rabbi.
In Australian and American churches, we have 21-year-olds and 22-year-olds becoming pastors, but according to the Jewish tradition, you don't become mature until you're 30. You don't have enough life experience, so you can't participate as a rabbi until you're 30.
A student used to train from 14 to 30. Interestingly, when Jesus was 14 in the temple, he taught all the rabbis great truths. They wondered who was teaching him because he possessed supernatural knowledge they'd never seen before. So, when Jesus said to Peter and the disciples that he called, "Follow me," he was essentially saying come and train to be a rabbi with me; come and train how to be like me.
When Jesus says to us, if anyone wants to come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. We are instructed to follow the actual part of training to be rabbis. We should endeavour to learn everything that Jesus did and taught and put that into practice. The sad fact of the matter is that the majority of Christians in the West have no idea what Jesus taught. They have no idea or no understanding of the commandments of Jesus. They have no idea how to act out the Gospel of love.
They have no idea how to walk out the commandments of Jesus and the teachings of Jesus. They have practically no idea what Jesus taught in his parables.
They don't seem to understand what the parables mean and what Jesus taught. And so, Jesus hasn't got many disciples. He hasn't got many people practically obeying him in everything they do.
In 1 John 2:6, it says, He that says he abides in him must walk just as he walked.
It's a shame that John wrote that; people don't notice that verse. John said there that if you're close to Jesus and living in an abiding and intimate relationship with Jesus, you should behave, and act like him.
Matthew can attest that a transformation begins once you acquaint yourself with the 50 commandments of Jesus and begin to integrate them into your life, walking in their guidance and obeying them with every decision you make. As you persistently follow Jesus's commandments throughout your life, you start to metamorphose into his likeness, developing the mind of Christ. You begin to think and make decisions aligning with Christ and emulate his actions. Jesus's call to his disciples to "follow me" also extends to you; his invitation to "deny oneself, take up the cross, and follow me" implies that we are all called to heed his direction. Jesus desires your discipleship; he wants you to follow him.
Matthew 11:28-30 says, "Come to me all who labor and are heavily laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."
In the Jewish tradition, a rabbi used to teach a yoke; it was like a form of teaching. It was the rabbi's understood theology; it was how the rabbi lived his life, called the yoke. That was his teaching method, theology, and how he acted. Rabbis used to pass down the teaching of their rabbi (i.e., their yoke), and the next rabbi used to pass down the teaching of the rabbi before him.
From time to time, a scribe used to reinterpret the scriptures for the modern time, and rabbis would come under the teaching of the scribes, and they would adjust their theology, they would adjust what they're teaching, and they'd develop a new yoke.
The scribes came with a new understanding. As a rabbi, Jesus brought a new yoke of his own. He was teaching things contrary to his rabbi, things that were different, things that Jesus knew had to be reformed. So, when Jesus says the following, he instructs the Jewish people to take his new way of life on board.
Come to me all who labour and are heavily laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.
Jesus is saying here that his way of teaching, which includes the commandments of Jesus that he brought forth, is easy and light, and you will find rest for your souls. Many people think that Jesus's commandments are hard and hard to apply.
The apostle John articulated that the commands of Jesus, though challenging and sometimes tough to incorporate into our carnal instincts, are not oppressive. To truly adhere to Jesus' directives, seeking guidance from the Holy Spirit through prayer is vital. However, embracing a life led by Jesus' commands proves more rewarding. It simplifies our existence, fosters prosperity, and nurtures us into being more loving and hospitable individuals.
Living by Jesus' commands daily enables us to embody the Gospel of love. The core message of Jesus was twofold - to love the Lord our God with all our heart, mind, and soul and to extend that love to our neighbors as we do to ourselves. Living by the 50 commandments of Jesus, we exhibit love in diverse ways that bring salvation and bear an affirmative testimony to others.