CHAPTER ONE
PARADISE LOST
"You are gods" -John 10:34
We are Sons & Daughters of the Most High
"No one ascends to heaven but he/she who first descended from it, even the Son of Man." -John 3:13
We Already Know Heaven and the Way There
"You are gods." Of all the hidden teachings we will explore, this is one of the most difficult to accept and understand. It may also be the most important to our full spiritual awakening.
As far as we can determine with our physical senses and sophisticated equipment, our lives begin with birth and end with death. Genetics, relationships, and events shape us and our lives. Yet, despite all the evidence to support this view, most humans believe that there is something more to a person than the physical, mental being we see and know. Most also believe that a nophysical portion of every person survives the death of the physical person. Most of us believe we have a dual nature, each being human and divine. Of course, the physical aspect of our nature is so present, so dominant that it is the aspect with which we most identify ourselves. The divine aspect is often just a theory, a wonderful and inspiring belief. In fact, some teach that our divine nature is simply our better human qualities, such as the ability to forgive, "to err is human; to forgive, divine." The implication being that our divinity is simply higher human nature. But that's what Jesus' words indicate. Among those who accept that we indeed have a separate, death-surviving divine nature, most do not believe that we are gods. If we are gods, then how come we can't do godlike things? Shouldn't we be able to fly or walk on water, calm the seas, heal the sick, multiply the loaves and fishes? And despite Jesus' teachings about our godly nature and our abilities to do greater miracles than he, evangelical Christians condemn so-called "New Agers" for even considering that they may be gods within God. It is a hard teaching to accept. Perhaps this is why it remains so hidden in the collection of Jesus' teachings.
Let's explore this concept and see if we may find some understanding that helps us appreciate why Jesus taught that we are gods.
He delivers this teaching in the course of defending himself from being stoned by angry questioners in the great Temple in Jerusalem. The account of this event is in the tenth chapter of the Gospel of John: "They took up stones to stone him. Jesus answered them, 'I have shown you many good works from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me?' They answered him, 'We don't stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God," (John 10:31-33). In point of fact, this was their number one reason for crucifying him. In their minds, and in the minds of many today, no man or woman could be a son or daughter of God in the truest sense of these words - godlings of God. That is so horrendous a statement that is considered blasphemy.
In Jesus' second effort to get this teaching across to the stone throwers, Jesus asked them: "Isn't it written in your law, 'I said, you are gods?' If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and the Scripture cannot be broken, do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, 'You blaspheme,' because I said, 'I am the Son of God?"" (John 10:34-36). The scripture to which Jesus is referring is Psalm 82, verse 6, and goes like this: "I said, 'You are gods, All of you are sons of the Most High.'" It is not clear who is speaking in the first person in this psalm, but it was written by Asaph, a prominent psalmist in David's court. One could assumed that it is "the Spirit of the Lord" that came upon so many of the Old Testament prophets and teachers. Psalm 82 begins with a line indicating that there is a large contingent of gods under God's authority: "God presides in the great assembly. He judges among the gods." This psalm and Jesus' support of it, plainly states that we are indeed gods within a great assembly of gods that the Most High God presides over and judges. We are the sons and daughters of God.
There is much support for this idea in ancient legends and myths. Around the world human mythology contains tales of ancient gods. Hindus, Egyptians, Chinese, Pacific Islands people, Incas, Mayans, Aztecs, Hopi, Algonquins, Norsemen, Greeks, Romans, and many others have legends of these ancient gods. Many of the legends contain similar story lines: There was a time when powerful gods battled with one another and intermingled with humans. In the biblical Genesis there were two groups of beings on the Earth in ancient times: Sons of God and the sons and daughters of men. These two groups eventually mingled, producing a third group of beings called "Nephilim." The Nephilim were power giants, humans with godlike strength. The intermingling of gods with humans so upset God that he decided to destroy mankind and the Nephilim, and start over. Genesis 6:1-7 tells the story: "And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the ground, and daughters were born unto them, that the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all that they chose. And Jehovah said, My spirit shall not strive with man for ever, for now he also is flesh; yet shall his days be a hundred and twenty years. The Nephilim were in the earth in those days, and also after that, when God's sons came to men's daughters. They bore children to them. The same [the children of these matings] were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. The Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him in his heart. The Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created..."
In Numbers 13:33 we have a scene in which some men came into the presence of these giants: "And there we saw the Nephilim, the sons of Anak, who come of the Nephilim. We were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight." The Incas also have legends about these giants living in their South American lands in ancient times. They say that a full-grown Inca man was only as tall as the length of the lower legs of these giants, only up to their knees. What happened to the grasshopper comparison? Either the giants were getting smaller or humans taller. The Incas also tell how these giants were evil, and God came and took them out of the world through death, and they were seen no more (for the whole Inca myth see Ancient South America, Little and Van Auken, 2002).
In the Book of Genesis, God first creates humanity in his own image, after his likeness, which would certainly qualify us to be godlings of the Most High God, as the psalmist stated. Let's review this story.
In the first chapter of Genesis, the name for God is Elohim, a plural Hebrew word that may be interpreted as "the Deities," and the crucial verse is translated, my emphasis: "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." Actually, the word "man" is not an accurate translation because the original text uses the Hebrew word adam, which when used with a lowercase "a" means humankind in the collective sense. In Numbers 31:28, 30, 35, 40, and 46 the word "adam" is translated by scholars as
"persons," conveying this broader meaning for the word adam. Later in Genesis, when the word "adam" is capitalized, it becomes a proper name for a specific person, perhaps even a specific group. But in these first two chapters adam simply means persons. "Let us make persons in our image, after our likeness." We might call them human beings except for the fact that they were not created in physical form until Genesis 2:7! In chapter one there is only the essence of heaven and earth, nothing on the physical earth was alive yet, not even humans, as Genesis 2:5 clearly states: "And no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up; for the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth and there was not a man to till the ground." The man or being had been created in Elohim's image but not put on Earth yet. We were in the mind or spirit of God, and our "form" was mind or consciousness and spirit or essence.


---


But before we explore our nature, let's try to understand why the author of Genesis uses a plural word for the name of the initial Creator? Why does he then change God's name as the biblical story progresses? I believe the answer is not that there is a pantheon of gods but that the one God is not an entity separate from anything or anyone; all exists within this collective God. Therefore, the plural word better reflects the collective nature of the ultimate, universal, infinite God of creation. God is not an individual, separate entity from the whole of creation. Rather, the creation exists within the infinite "body" and mind of this collective, creator God, this Elohim. We may consider Elohim to be the vast, infinite, eternal womb of consciousness within which all life was conceived, the mind of God. The physical creation does not begin until later in chapter two of Genesis. And when this physical creation begins, God's name is changed to Yahweh Elohim, which most English Bibles translate as "Lord God." God is called Elohim in chapter one, then becomes Yahweh Elohim in chapter two, and only Yahweh by chapter four; and as the Bible continues God is called Adoni or Adonay from a root word that means sovereign, lord, master, or owner. For much of the Old Testament God's name is Jehovah. Eventually, Jesus calls God Abba, which most English Bibles translate as "Father." For Jesus, God was an intimate Creator comparable in relationship and love to one's earthly Papa. Papa would also mean that we are indeed the children of God, and as such are certainly godlings of the parent God.
Changing the name for the Creator reflects changes in our relationship to our Creator as the creation progressed. Originally, we were created in God's image. We were part of the collective, the "great assembly" spoken of in Psalm 82. The nature of
the collective, universal God, creator of the whole universe, is spirit and consciousness; therefore, our divine nature is spirit and consciousness. We'll study more of about the spirit nature of God later.
As the creation continued, a new dimension was added to us in chapter two of Genesis, a dimension formed from the dust of the Earth by Yahweh Elohim. Our second nature is form - body and mind. This has become our predominant condition
today. After the chapter-one creation in the image and likeness of Elohim, chapter two records the second creation this way:
"Yahweh Elohim [Lord God] formed adam [humankind] from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and adam became a living soul. Yahweh Elohim planted a garden eastward, in Eden, and there he put the man
[person or persons] whom he had formed."
Let me again explain that most English Bibles will translate the Hebrew word adam as "man." But adam also means and is translated by many scholars as "persons" or "beings." It is helpful to hold that meaning in these initial chapters because it
better expresses characteristics of this creation that are significant as our understanding grows.
In this verse, we discover that we were created a second time, but this time from the dust of the ground and the breath of life. Therefore, we have been created twice. This is the origin of the idea that we have a dual nature: divine and human, godly
and physical, spirit and flesh, essence and form, energy and matter.
But there is even a third creation! In the eighteenth verse of chapter two, Yahweh Elohim decides that we are "lonely" in this new world of duality: "And the Lord God said, 'It is not good that the man (person or persons] should be alone; I will make a help meet for him." God's first attempt to provide us with a companion or help-meet is with the animal kingdom, but "the man" finds no companion or help-meet among the creatures. Therefore, Yahweh Elohim cast "a deep sleep" over the being [adam] and separates ishshah and ish, these Hebrew words literally mean female and male. In doing this Yahweh Elohim creates new gender-specific bodies, one feminine and the other masculine. Now we have a third layer to our whole being. We are divinely in the image of Elohim, physically of the dust of the Earth, and subsequently gender separated!
But if we continue to read Genesis carefully, there is another creation yet to come. As the creation continues it reaches that point that we have already discussed concerning the Nephilim, the increase of evil to such a level that God decides to destroy everything and start over. Post-Great-Flood beings were apparently different than Pre-Great-Flood beings. One significant difference was the end of the ages of the sons of God and of the giant Nephilim. After the Great Flood, an event recorded in the legends of cultures around the world, the Earth was only populated by humans. Even the great prophets, many of whom performed miracles, were very human.
A fascinating event that is pertinent to our topic occurs in the Book of Job. As you know, this book begins with the "sons of God coming before God to present themselves, and Satan also came among them." God asks Satan to consider how "perfect and upright" Job is, and how he "turns away from evil." To this Satan replies with the greatest accusations against us: "Does Job not fear you for a reason? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth Your hand now and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face." In other words, we don't honor God because we love our Creator, but because we fear losing our material riches and comforts if we offend Him. It is our wealth and physical well-being that matters to us, not our loving, mutually considerate relationship with God. To this accusation God responds with a major directive that we should all take to heart. He instructs Satan to test Job to see if this is so. And, as we all know, Job endures the dreadful tests without cursing God. Eventually, Job attempts to explain God's reasons for allowing such to happen to Job, but God comes to him directly. And it is in this discussion that we find something integrally pertinent to our discuss of Jesus' teaching that we are gods. Here's the passage from Job 38:17.
"Then Jehovah answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, 'Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? Now gird up your loins like a man. For I will ask you, and you instruct me! Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding. Who set its measures, if you know? Or who stretched the line on it? On what were its foundations fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone, When the morning stars sang together, And all the sons of God shouted for joy?"
God is demanding that Job search his heart for deeper answers to some very strange questions. Where was Job when the foundations of the Earth were laid out? To Job and to each of us today, this is a strange question indeed. We feel so connected to physical life, how could we possibly have been anywhere when the foundations of the Earth were set! But we were. We were among the "morning stars that sang together" when "the sons of God shouted for joy." A godly part of us, made in the image of the Creator, was with God when He laid the foundations of the earth.
Edgar Cayce, from his deep attunement to the Universal Consciousness, to the Mind of God, taught that not only God is God, but each of us is a part of that oneness (900-181). We need to awaken to our divinity and our role with the Divine. Then,
we need to integrate this divine nature with our humanity in order to fully realize our potential and mission in this life.
Jesus actually addresses the need for a change from such predominant human focus to a more spiritual, heavenly focus when he tells Nicodemus that we must be born again, explaining that the physical, fleshy part of us is not sufficient, but must give birth to the spiritual portion of our being. In the course of teaching this, Jesus actually tells us through Nicodemus that no one ascends to heaven who did not already descend from it. Within us is a heavenly being who knows heaven first-hand, and has come into this world from heaven. The teaching goes like this:
'That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, 'You must be born anew. The wind blows where it wants to, and you hear its sound but don't know where it comes from and where it is going. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit.' Nicodemus answered him, 'How can these things be?' Jesus answered him, 'Are you a teacher of Israel, and don't understand these things? Most assuredly I tell you, we speak that which we know, and testify of that which we have seen, and you don't receive our witness. If I told you earthly things and you don't believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things? No one has ascended into heaven, but he who descended out of heaven, even the Son of Man, who is in heaven." (John 3:6-14).
Notice in this last sentence how Jesus, the Son of Man, states that even though he is physically standing before Nicodemus, he is already in heaven. This indicates that heaven is a state of consciousness, and can be entered from anywhere if the mind
and heart are attuned to or conscious of heaven's essence.
No one ascends to heaven but he or she who descended from it. A part of us has already been in heaven and descended into our baby body upon physical birth. Most of us have lost touch with this part. It is like our spiritual, divine, godly self that we
discussed in the first chapter, but we've become so focused on the physical outer world and our fleshly self, that we've lost awareness of our spiritual, godly self.
Jesus gives a further insight into this during his Last Supper discussions with Thomas and Philip in the Gospel of John 14:4-11. Here's the discussion:
"Where I go, you know the way' Thomas says to him, 'Lord, we do not know where you go; how can we know the way?' Jesus says to him, 'I am the way, and the truth, and the life; no one comes to the Father, but by me. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also; from now on you know him, and have seen him' Philip says to him, 'Lord, show us the Father, and it is sufficient for us' Jesus says to him, 'Have I been with you this long a time, and you do not know me, Philip? He

---

that has seen me has seen the Father; how can you say, 'Show us the Father?' Don't you believe that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I speak not from myself, but the Father abiding in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the very works' sake.""
In this discussion we discover that somewhere deep within us, we know where Jesus went and we know the way! How? Because, as he taught Nicodemus, not one of us ascends to heaven that did not already descend from it, and deep within us we have known heaven and we know the way to heaven. But, like most of us, Philips wants Jesus to manifest the Father out here in the physical, outer world where we predominantly live and having our being. However, Jesus redirects him toward the Father's realm, as found in that teaching he gave in Luke 17:22: "the kingdom of God is within you." Jesus explains that if you see and know me, you see and know the Father because "I am in the Father, and the Father is in me." But these are hard words to accept when living predominantly in an externalized, outwardly projected state of consciousness. Inner places and spaces are not our common abode for consciousness and activity. Prayer, meditation, dreams, intuition, inner listening to our deeper self, and inner listening to God's still, small voice within us, are all ways to find this way, this truth, and this light as Jesus exemplified.
Jesus takes this idea of inner communication and heavenly consciousness a step further in subsequent verses, saying, "I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may be with you forever - the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive because it cannot see him or know him. You know him, for he abides with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you desolate. I will come to you. In a little while the world will see me no more. But you will see me because I live;
you shall live also. In that day you shall know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you."
In John 16:7 Jesus tells us a strange condition: "I tell you the truth: It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you." It appears that Jesus must leave in order for the eternal Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, to come to us and guide us. He implies that it is because he must go to heaven to send it. But it may also be because we would never look within for guidance while Jesus is standing without, and if it is true that the kingdom of God is within us, then indeed it was necessary for Jesus to go in order for us to receive the Spirit of Truth, the Comforter from within us.
In John 16:12-16, Jesus explains the role of the Spirit of Truth further:
"I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. Nevertheless, when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he shall guide you into all the truth, for he shall not speak from himself, but whatsoever things he shall hear, these shall he speak. And he shall declare to you the things that are to come. He shall glorify me for he shall take of mine, and shall declare it to you. All things whatsoever the Father has are mine, therefore I said, that he takes of mine, and shall declare it to you. A little while, and you see me no more; and again a little while, and you shall see me."
It is in this manner that God is going to continue our education and enlightenment: through inner communions with the Spirit of Truth. These may come during times of reflection, in dreams, in meditation, or moments in prayer when God's spirit conveys to us, ever so subtly, an insight. Then, when we take these insights and apply them in our daily life, they grow into an understandings that build wisdom over time. In this manner our soul growth proceeds. In this manner we come to know our divine nature, awaken to our heavenly connection, and live a life of love, service, and creativity that unites our humanity with our divinity. To consciously realize who one truly is, is a rare achievement in this world, and worth pursuing. To be a channel of God's blessings in this world, making it a better place because we were here, is a great mission for any soul to attempt. Jesus' teachings call us all to these pursuits.