Everything Depends on Consciousness
"This consciousness is one and present in all, as it is all-pervasive. In reality, the same is the Self. We must take an oath and should have conviction about our true nature. This itself is Yoga. Everybody is eligible to realize the Self"
- Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj
Consider yourself not as the body and its form, but as consciousness. The body is in consciousness, and consciousness is in the body. It consumes food essence and develops. Just as with the oil lamp, there is oil, and therefore a flame with heat and light; in the food essence, there is consciousness.
lou can never experience your consciousness without the simultaneous experience of the world. When you know that you are, you know, also, that the world is. The existence of everything depends on consciousness. With our consciousness, w ome to know about the unmoving, such as mountains and trees, and the moving, such as the various creatures. That which is static and that which is dynamic are the forms of our consciousness, and you experience its qualities- its form, nature, an behaviour. All of these activities begin with the knowledge 'I am'.
Through the body, you come to know your 'I am-ness'. That knowledge has neither shape nor limbs; you simply are that knowledge and that consciousness. With no organs, it is pure knowledge. Although you are pure consciousness, you identify yourself as the body, and as a result, you become accused of the body's actions. Consciousness appears to be nebulous, but through yogic illusion, it acts dominantly.
Your consciousness is the most important thing you have. Your consciousness is as important as Guru, God, and Brahman. Your world, that is, the various scenes that appear, is born in the light of your consciousness. Whatever is non-existent becomes manifest in the light of your consciousness. Your consciousness spontaneously becomes unconscious, and when it does, you are not aware of your existence; you do not know that you are. This not-knowing state is called samadhi ('absorption' in the Self), or deep sleep. In the waking state, you know that you are and you know and perceive the world with all its happenings.
Nothing Greater
There is nothing greater than consciousness, than your 'I am' knowledge. But this consciousness is not permanent - indeed, it is destined to vanish. Therefore, the need for discrimination is crucial. You must worship your consciousness as Brahma, Vishnu, Mahesh, or Shiva. Remember, nondual worshipping of consciousness means treating it as God and with great significance. It means giving your consciousness the prominence it deserves.
misunderstanding.
Your sense of 'I am' receives whatever name you give it. For practical purposes and to aid understanding, names are used. You are consciousness; you are knowledge- Anugraha. 'Anu' means 'minute' and 'graha' means 'acceptance. You have now accepted that you are consciousness in the body, and you should spontaneously know the manifest as the realisation 'I am', 'I exist'. The unmanifest knows the manifest as 'I am'.
The Liberation of Consciousness
If you understand consciousness fully, you will know the reflection of the Absolute Reality in the food essence body. With this knowledge, you will observe the liberation (moksha) of consciousness. Worship beingness. Whatever you see will vanish, including the news that 'I am. Worship your beingness, your Guru, your God, one-pointedly. Release duality with your Self and know there is no other protector than That. For whom do you work day and night? Is it for beingness? What is greater than the memory 'I am'? Worship your sense of being. It is God, or Brahman, and nothing is more significant than that.
A true devotee worships their consciousness without duality: they identify themself with their consciousness. They know their consciousness as the form of the great God —their true Self.
Is there meditation in attention, or is there attention in meditation? There is no correct response, as both meditation and attention are the same.
Do not avoid your worldly activities, but just know they are timebound. Your 'I am-ness' began on the first day of your life and will end when the food juices dry up. And at the end, your 'I am-ness' will disappear. To know the truth, meditate, calling yourself Ram, Krishna, God, or whatever you like. You may call your beingness by any name, but you must align with the conviction of your knowledge. It is your true Being. The names of God are unlimited: Sahasranama. The names of God are many, but God's essence- the sense of being in the human form-is singular.
Devotee: If consciousness is not present in the body, the body becomes valueless. Even a multimillionaire derives their value from their consciousness alone. Without consciousness, even multimillionaires' relatives will dispose of the body at the earliest time without even drinking a cup of water. Without consciousness, the body may as well be discarded. Without consciousness, the universe is a desolate place.
God: The universe only has value because of the knowledge 'I am'. Objects have significance because of your fondness for them. If Brahman likes something, its value increases.
Devotee: Without my sense of being, what is the value of the world?
God: I'm not separate from my devotee, and my devotee is not separate from me. The knowledge 'I am' is my timeless form. When the devotee attains unity with me, what else do they need?
- A conversation between God and devotee expressed by Maharaj
The speaker is speaking, and the listener is listening, but the one who is listening is themself a form of God. Pure being knows this and gives attention to itself in nondual meditation. This state of oneness is the most exceptional devotion.