Nisarga Yoga Principle Two
Interest and Earnestness
"Him have I seen now whom I so earnestly desired to see, I met myself... I pined to see the most beloved one... Yet with love and determination, eagerness and courage, I started on my journey."
- Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj
To know yourself and your true identity as God, consider what you already know: your knowledge 'I am' (Brahman) as the Ultimate, the truth. Knowledge is shapeless, pure, and luminous. Self-love and Self-taste infuse this knowledge and its love for the Supreme. There are many names but whatever is, is not apart from you, whether you call it Brahma, Vishnu, or Mahesh. These incarnations are advertisements that point to your worthiness. I have told you, 'You are Brahman. There is no Brahman apart from you', and my words are final and sincere.
You inherently know the state before the appearance of your consciousness, but persistently dedicating time and attention to welcome this silent state which is the seed of the universe, of Brahman, is often challenging. Although your current mental activities reveal your likely busy-ness, with regular practice sitting in silence, you will eventually soothe your inner talk and conflicts.
Fearless is the one who knows that their beingness is of the great God. Many worship God as an external entity, but where does such praise lead, ultimately, but to the grip of death? Death is reserved for the ignorant, whereas I am the soul of Bhagwan Sri Krishna, and his is mine. Lakhs of people proclaim this, but how many people will say they are the soul of Bhagwan Krishna? Too few, considering there should be no doubt of this.
With minimal effort, all can grasp the significance of this non-intellectual knowledge and release the experience of suffering. But to do so, you must hold on to consciousness and seek clarity. And for greater clarity, you must meditate. With this meditation, you will unveil the origin of consciousness, its maintenance, and what happens after consciousness vanishes. You will acquire all this knowledge without asking for it, but just by meditating.
Your True Self Prior to Conception
Your mind gives you your bodily identity, and this, the scriptures say, results in misery and rebirth. Even now if you see yourself as aloof from the mind, you will recognise the falsehood of birth. In a dream, a high caste Hindu sees himself as a person of a lower caste. The dream produces wrong understanding, and one considers oneself inferior. All problems derive from your identification with the body.
I caution my visitors that if they take a genuine interest in what I speak about that they will shed all interest in their hopes, desires, and cravings. But instead of focusing on perceived losses, consider: What will you gain through your spiritual pursuit?
When you receive this knowledge, you will come to know you are neither the vital breath nor the consciousness and you will realise your true Self prior to conception. What were your needs and problems then? When you understand yourself, where is the place for hopes, desires, and cravings? These are perpetual qualms for those attached to the body, but meaningless to the real devotee of the Supreme. When consciousness receives self-knowledge, we become free of all knowledge and there is no place for hopes, desires, and cravings.
An earnest, fortunate seeker will quickly grasp my words. Those who are earnest have an urgent desire to know the truth of self-knowledge, but such seekers are rare. Many have natural devotion, yet no urgency. Practice surrendering your attention
at my feet, and you will be liberated in this very life. Your mind alone cannot relinquish the body identity.
Greatness is the effect of remembering Guru or God; His superiority comes to pass in this recognition, and he gains satisfaction through self-acquaintance. Hold the 'I am' knowledge in self-love and self-confidence for the good of yourself and the
entire world. Worship the name of Hari or God for the knowledge and fulfilment of your being.
Every morning, you wake up. Who comes to know, through words, about waking up? The one who knows about waking up is the one who first recognises the waking. Every morning, give attention to the momentary experience in-between sleep and
waking. Be there fully. No effort. Just recognise the passing phase. After that ephemeral moment, the identification with the body begins, along with all the worldly activities.