"If you don't find a way to make money while you sleep, you will work until you die."
"The difference between successful people and really successful people is that really successful people say no to almost everything."
"Honesty is a very expensive gift. Don't expect it from cheap people."
"Price is what you pay. Value is what you get."
"Risk comes from not knowing what you're doing."
"Games are won by players who focus on the playing field - not by those whose eyes are glued to the scoreboard."
"Someone's sitting in the shade today because someone planted a tree a long time ago."
"Be fearful when others are greedy and greedy when others are fearful."
"It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that you'll do things differently."
"I always knew I was going to be rich. I don't think I ever doubted it for a minute."
"You've gotta keep control of your time, and you can't unless you say no. You can't let people set your agenda in life."
"It's better to hang out with people better than you. Pick out associates whose behavior is better than yours and you'll drift in that direction."
"Opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold, put out the bucket, not the thimble."
"The most important thing to do if you find yourself in a hole is to stop digging."
"You only have to do a very few things right in your life so long as you don't do too many things wrong."
"Wall Street is the only place that people drive to in a Rolls Royce to take advice from people who ride the subway."
"You can't produce a baby in one month by getting nine women pregnant."
"In the business world, the rearview mirror is always clearer than the windshield."
"We don't have to be smarter than the rest. We have to be more disciplined than the rest."
"A public-opinion poll is no substitute for thought."
"Forecasts may tell you a great deal about the forecaster; they tell you nothing about the future."
"We all make mistakes. If you can't make mistakes, you can't make decisions. I've made a lot bigger mistakes myself."
"What we learn from history is that people don't learn from history."
"I learned to go into business only with people whom I like, trust, and admire."
"You never know who's swimming naked until the tide goes out."
"Don't pass up something that's attractive today because you think you will find something way more attractive tomorrow."
"I am not a businessman, I am an artist."
"If book knowledge made great investors, than the librarians would all be rich."
"The first rule is not to lose. The second rule is not to forget the first rule."
"Somebody once said that in looking for people to hire, you look for three qualities: integrity, intelligence, and energy. And if you don't have the first, the other two will kill you. You think about it; it's true. If you hire somebody without integrity, you really want them to be dumb and lazy."
"Chains of habit are too light to be felt until they are too heavy to be broken."
"Focus alone is not enough; putting in the time to commit is also crucial to achieve success."
"Tell me who your heroes are and I'll tell you how you'll turn out to be."
"Everybody's got a different circle of competence. The important thing is not how big the circle is. The important thing is staying inside the circle."
"I will tell you the secret to getting rich on Wall Street. You try to be greedy when others are fearful. And you try to be fearful when others are greedy."
"The most dangerous distractions are the ones you love, but that don't love you back."
"I never try to predict the market."
"I try to buy stock in businesses that are so wonderful that an idiot can run them. Because sooner or later, one will."
"I made my first investment at age eleven. I was wasting my life up until then."
"Should you find yourself in a chronically leaking boat, energy devoted to changing vessels is likely to be more productive than energy devoted to patching leaks."
"I do not like debt and do not like to invest in companies that have too much debt, particularly long-term debt. With long-term debt, increases in interest rates can drastically affect company profits and make future cash flows less predictable."
"Do not put all your eggs in one basket."
"The Stock Market is designed to transfer money from the Active to the Patient."
"Equities will do well over time - you just have to avoid getting excited when other people are getting excited."
"Our goal is to find an outstanding business at a sensible price, not a mediocre business at a bargain price."
"Investment philosophy is the clear understanding that by owning shares of stocks he owns businesses, not pieces of paper."
"There comes a time when you ought to start doing what you want. Take a job that you love.
You will jump out of bed in the morning. I think you are out of your mind if you keep taking jobs that you don't like because you think it will look good on your resume. Isn't that a little like saving up sex for your old age?"
"Mr. Market is kind of a drunken psycho. Some days he gets very enthused, some days he gets very depressed. And when he get really enthused you sell to him, and if he gets depressed, you buy from him. There's no moral taint attached to that."
"A bull market is like sex. It feels best just before it ends."
"I'd rather have a $10 million business making 15 per cent than a $100 million business making 5 per cent."
"What's hot today isn't likely to be hot tomorrow. The stock market reverts to fundamental returns over the long run. Don't follow the herd."
"With each investment you make, you should have the courage and the conviction to place at least ten per cent of your net worth in that stock."
"You don't need to be a rocket scientist. Investing is not a game where the guy with the 160
IQ beats the guy with 130 IQ."
"If you've been playing poker for half an hour and you still don't know who the patsy is, you're the patsy."
"If you're in the luckiest 1 percent of humanity, you owe it to the rest of humanity to think about the other 99 percent."
"With a wonderful business, you can figure out what will happen; you can't figure out when it will happen. You don't want to focus on when, you want to focus on what. If you're right about what, you don't have to worry about when."
"In looking for people to hire, you look for three qualities: integrity, intelligence, and energy. And if they don't have the first, the other two will kill you."
of impressive numbers multiplied by a single zero always equals zero."

"A single year's performance is of minor importance and, good or bad, should never be taken seriously."
to pick out a few heroes."
"You are lucky in life if you have the right heroes. I advise all of you, to the extent you can,
"You shouldn't own common stocks if a 50 per cent decrease in their value in a short period of time would cause you acute distress."
"If at first you do succeed, quit trying on investing."
won't improve with age."
"One's objective should be to get it right, get it quick, get it out and get it over. Your problem
"There are all kinds of businesses that Charlie and I don't understand, but that doesn't cause us to stay up at night. It just means we go on to the next one, and that's what the individual investor should do."
what it's all about."
"Take the probability of loss times the amount of possible loss from the probability of gain times the amount of possible gain. That is what we're trying to do. It's imperfect, but that's
"Nothing sedates rationality like large doses of effortless money."
"I find that the standard of living does not go up in proportion with the cost of living. The trick in life is to do things that are fun all the time."
were at a peak. Fear is the foe of the faddist, but the friend of the fundamentalist."
"We have usually made our best purchases when apprehensions about some macro event
"When you combine ignorance and leverage, you get some pretty interesting results."
"Only when the tide goes out do you discover who's been swimming naked."

"Gold gets dug out of the ground in Africa, or someplace. Then we melt it down, dig another hole, bury it again and pay people to stand around guarding it. It has no utility. Anyone watching from Mars would be scratching their head."
can't understand moats."
"No formula in finance tells you that the moat is 28 feet wide and 16 feet deep. That's what drives the academics crazy. They can compute standard deviations and betas, but they
"Over the years, a number of very smart people have learned the hard way that a long string
"In the insurance business, there is no statute of limitation on stupidity."
"In our view, derivatives are financial weapons of mass destruction carrying dangers that, while latent, are potentially lethal."
"Invest in as much of yourself as you can, you are your own biggest asset by far."
"I would say that life at 84, I am having as much fun as I've ever had in my life. I mean I get to do what I love every day with the people I love-and it just doesn't get any better than that."
"There's class warfare, all right, but it's my class, the rich class, that's making war, and we're winning."
"We always live in an uncertain world. What is certain is that the United States will go forward over time."
"If knowing history made you rich, librarians would be billionaires."
"We do not view the company itself as the ultimate owner of our business assets but instead view the company as a conduit through which our shareholders own assets."
"In a difficult business, no sooner is one problem solved than another surfaces - never is there just one cockroach in the kitchen."
"Investing is simple, but not easy."
"Read 500 pages every day. That's how knowledge works. It builds up like compound interest."
"I could end the deficit in five minutes. You just pass a law that says that any time there's a deficit of more than three percent of GDP, all sitting members of Congress are ineligible for re-election."
"Either they're trying to con you or they're trying to con themselves."
"The key to success is emotional stability."
"Take the high road; it's far less crowded."
"Trust is like the air we breathe - when it's present, nobody really notices; when it's absent, everybody notices."
"If you want to soar like an eagle in life, you can't be flocking with the turkeys."
"Successful Investing takes time, discipline and patience. No matter how great the talent or effort, some things just take time: You can't produce a baby in one month by getting nine women pregnant." -----------------------------------
"The secret to happiness is having low expectations."
"Money is not everything. Make sure you earn a lot before speaking such nonsense."
"You can't make a good deal with a bad person."
"The rich invest in time, the poor invest in money."
"Never depend on a single source of income."
"Diversification may preserve wealth, but concentration builds wealth."
"Intensity is the price of excellence."
"Larger sums may be an advantage at some cases and a disadvantage at others."
"Never test the depth of river with both the feet."
"The Noah rule: Predicting rain doesn't count; building arks does."
"Very successful people say no to almost everything."
"Cash combined with courage in a time of crisis is priceless."
"The greatest Enemies of the Equity investor are Expenses and Emotions."
"Failure comes from ego, greed, envy, fear, imitation. I have success not because I am smart, but because I am rational."
"Earnings can be pliable as putty when a charlatan heads the company reporting them."
"If you lose money for the firm, I will be forgiving. If you lose reputation, I will be ruthless."
"I insist on a lot of time being spent, almost every day, to just sit and think. That is very uncommon in American business. I read and think. So I do more reading and thinking, and make less impulse decisions than most people in business. I do it because I like this kind of life."
"Never risk what you have and need for what we don't have and don't need."
"Investing requires qualities of temperament way more than it requires qualities of intellect."
"We enjoy the process far more than the proceeds."
"Whatever you like to do, make it a hobby and whatever the world likes to do, make it a business."
"It's much easier to stay out of trouble now than to get out of trouble later."
"When people tell me they've learned from experience, I tell them the trick is to learn from other people's experience."
"It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price."
"Never invest in a business you can't understand."
"If you can't communicate and talk to other people and get across your ideas, you're giving up your potential."
"It is not necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary results."
"They say the chains of habit are too light to be felt until they are too heavy to be broken.
The chains you put around yourself now have enormous consequences as you go through life."
"There's no use running if you're on the wrong road."
"The wise man once said invest young."
"My favorite holding period is forever."
"Diversification is protection against ignorance. It makes little sense if you know what you are doing."
"We've used up a lot of bullets. And we talk about stimulus. But the truth is, we're running a federal deficit that's 9 percent of GDP. That is stimulative as all get out. It's more stimulative than any policy we've followed since World War II."
"Time is your friend, impulse is your enemy. Take advantage of compound interest and don't be captivated by the siren song of the market."
"Nevertheless, as circumstances presently appear, I feel substantially greater size is more likely to harm future results than to help them. This might not be true for my own personal results, but it is likely to be true for your results."
"If you can't read the scoreboard. You don't know the score. If you don't know the score, you an't tell the winners from the losers."
"Asking for financial advice from a financial planner is like asking a barber if you need a hair cut."
"Investing is laying out money now to get more money back in the future."
"You don't need to have extraordinary effort to achieve extraordinary results. You just need to do the ordinary, everyday things exceptionally well."
"Investment must be rational; if you can't understand it, don't do it."
"I don't look to jump over 7-foot bars: I look around for 1-foot bars that I can step over."
"Taking jobs to build up your resume is the same as saving up sex for old age."
"Mr. Market is your servant, not your guide."
"Valuing a business is part art and part science."
"Never give up searching for the job that you're passionate about."
"We don't read other people's opinions. We want to get the facts, and then think."
"What the human being is best at doing is interpreting all new information so that their prior conclusions remain intact."
"Energy deregulation will be the largest transfer of wealth in history."
"By periodically investing in an index fund, the know-nothing investors can actually outperform most investment professionals."
"Like most trends, at the beginning it's driven by fundamentals, at some point speculation takes over. What the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end."
"Whether we're talking about socks or stocks, I like buying quality merchandise when it is marked down."
"The trick is, when there is nothing to do, do nothing."
"A prediction about the direction of the stock market tells you nothing about where stocks are headed, but a whole lot about the person doing the predicting."
"First come the innovators, then come the imitators, then come the idiots."
"When investing, pessimism is your friend, euphoria the enemy"
"Derivatives are financial weapons of mass destruction."
"No matter how great the talent or efforts, some things just take time."
"Exercise humility and restraint."
"A low-cost index fund is the most sensible equity investment for the great majority of investors. My mentor, Ben Graham, took this position many years ago, and everything I have seen since convinces me of its truth."
"Other guys read Playboy. I read annual reports."
"Enjoy your work and work for whom you admire."
"It is more important to say "no" to an opportunity, than to say "yes"."
"Interest rates are to asset prices what gravity is to the apple. When there are low interest rates, there is a very low gravitational pull on asset prices."
"A great investment opportunity occurs when a marvelous business encounters a one-time huge, but solvable problem."
"Focus on return on equity, not earnings per share."
"Only when you combine sound intellect with emotional discipline do you get rational behavior."
"It is impossible to unsign a contract, so do all your thinking before you sign."
"The most important quality for an investor is temperament, not intellect. You need a temperament that neither derives great pleasure from being with the crowd or against the crowd."
"My wealth has come from a combination of living in America, some lucky genes, and compound interest."
"Only buy something that you'd be perfectly happy to hold if the market shut down for 10 years."
"Growth and value investing are joined at the hip."
"I've seen more people fail because of liquor and leverage - leverage being borrowed money.
You really don't need leverage in this world much. If you're smart, you're going to make a lot of money without borrowing."
"It's nice to have a lot of money, but you know, you don't want to keep it around forever. I prefer buying things. Otherwise, it's a little like saving sex for your old age."
"I have three boxes on my desk: In, Out, and Too Hard."
"I read annual reports of the company I'm looking at and I read the annual reports of the competitors - that is the main source of material."
"What's nice about investing is you don't have to swing at every pitch."
"Do what you would do for free, having passion for what you do is the most important thing."
"People will always try to stop you from doing the right thing if it is unconventional."
"Cash, though, is to a business as oxygen is to an individual: never thought about when it is present, the only thing in mind when it is absent. When bills come due, only cash is legal tender. Don't leave home without it."
"Making money isn't the backbone of our guiding purpose; making money is the byproduct of our guiding purpose. If you're doing something you love, you're more likely to put your all into it, and that generally equates to making money."
"The stock market is a no-called-strike game. You don't have to swing at everything - you can wait for your pitch."
"Buy companies with strong histories of profitability and with a dominant business franchise."
"Activity is the enemy of investment returns."
"Look for companies with high profit margins."
"To win, the first thing you have to do is not lose."
"Cultivate curiosity and strive to become a little wiser every day."
"Do what you love and work for whom you admire the most, and you've given yourself the best chance in life you can."
"When it's raining gold, reach for a bucket, not a thimble."
"The best education you can get is investing in yourself, and that doesn't mean college or university."
"The plan itself is opportunism. There is no plan before that."
"Never do anything in life if you would be ashamed of seeing it printed on the front page of your hometown newspaper for your friends and family to see."
"The future is never clear; you pay a very high price in the stock market for a cheery consensus. Uncertainty actually is the friend of the buyer of long-term values."
"Always associate yourself with people who are better than you."
"You have to turn over a lot of rocks to find those little anomalies. You have to find the companies that are off the map - way off the map."
"Anything can happen anytime in markets. And no advisor, economist, or TV commentator-and definitely not Charlie nor I-can tell you when chaos will occur. Market forecasters will fill your ear but will never fill your wallet."
"I always invest in companies an idiot could run, because one day one will."
"A contrarian approach is just as foolish as a follow-the-crowd strategy. What's required is thinking rather than polling."
"The fact that people will be full of greed, fear, or folly is predictable. The sequence is not predictable."===================
"The dumbest reason in the world to buy a stock is because it's going up."
"The fundamental basis of above-average performance in the long run is sustainable competitive advantage."
"Most people get interested in stocks when everyone else is. The time to get interested is when no one else is. You can't buy what is popular and do well."
"I never attempt to make money on the stock market. I buy on the assumption that they could close the market the next day and not reopen it for five years."
"Outstanding long-term results are produced primarily by avoiding dumb decisions, rather than by making brilliant ones."
"The one piece of advice I can give you is, do what turns you on. Do something that if you had all the money in the world, you'd still be doing it. You've got to have a reason to jump out of bed in the morning."
"That which is not worth doing at all is not worth doing well."
"Things you like to do should be a hobby of yours, but things the world does should be a business of yours."
"Investing is forgoing consumption now in order to have the ability to consume more at a later date."
"Time is the friend of the wonderful company, the enemy of the mediocre."
"The reaction of weak management to weak operations is often weak accounting."
"The most important quality for an investor is temperament, not intellect."
"Never count on making a good sale. Have the purchase price be so attractive that even a mediocre sale gives good results."
"Knowing what to leave out is just as important as knowing what to focus on."
"Buy into a company because you want to own it, not because you want the stock to go up."
"Do not take yearly results too seriously. Instead, focus on four or five-year averages."
"Managers and investors alike must understand that accounting numbers are the beginning, not the end, of business valuation."
"Beware of geeks bearing formulas."
"Look at market fluctuations as your friend rather than your enemy; profit from folly rather than participate in it."
"I really like my life. I've arranged my life so that I can do what I want."
"Buy stocks like you buy your groceries, not like you buy your perfume."
"A diamond cannot be polished without friction, nor a person perfected without trials.
Someone is enjoying shade today because someone planted a tree a long time ago."
"In a commodity business, it's very hard to be smarter than your dumbest competitor."
"Banking is very good business if you don't do anything dumb."
"Stop trying to predict the direction of the stock market, the economy or elections."
"The most common cause of low prices is pessimism - sometimes pervasive, sometimes specific to a company or industry. We want to do business in such an environment, not because we like pessimism but because we like the prices it produces."
"It's not that I want money. It's the fun of making money and watching it grow."
"The ideal business is one that earns very high returns on capital and that keeps using lots of capital at those high returns. That becomes a compounding machine."
"Great investment opportunities come around when excellent companies are surrounded by unusual circumstances that cause the stock to be misappraised."
"The best thing I did was choose the right heroes."
"If you want to shoot rare, fast-moving elephants, you should always carry a loaded gun."
"It's never paid to bet against America. We come through things, but its not always a smooth ride."
"The most important thing in terms of your circle of competence is not how large the area of it is, but how well you've defined the perimeter."
"Uncertainty is the friend of the buyer of long term values."
"Much success can be attributed to inactivity. Most investors cannot resist the temptation to constantly buy and sell."
"If a business does well, the stock eventually follows."
"Buy a business, don't rent stocks."
"We don't get paid for being busy, we get paid for being right."
"The value of a business is the cash it's going to produce in the future."
"How do you beat Bobby Fischer? You play him at any game but chess. I try to stay in games where I have an edge."
"Benign neglect, bordering on sloth, remains the hallmark of our investment process."
"A lot of great fortunes in the world have been made by owning a single wonderful business. If you understand the business, you don't need to own very many of them."
"The less prudence with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence with which we should conduct our own affairs."
"Wall Street makes its money on activity. You make your money on inactivity."
"The real fortunes in this country have been made by people who have been right about the business they invested in, and not right about the timing of the stock market."
"Shares are not mere pieces of paper. They represent part ownership of a business. So, when contemplating an investment, think like a prospective owner."
"My father was the best person i've ever known."
"I checked the actuarial tables, and the lowest death rate is among six-year-olds. So I decided to eat like a six-year-old."
"If you want your business to survive for 100 years, you've got to make it through every single day for 100 years. It's not enough to do it 99.9% of the time."
"Possessing a powerful worldwide brand is essential for sustained success."
"Wide diversification is only required when investors do not understand what they are doing."
"Of the billionaires I have known, money just brings out the basic traits in them. If they were jerks before they had money, they are simply jerks with a billion dollars."
"An IPO is like a negotiated transaction - the seller chooses when to come public - and it's unlikely to be a time that's favourable to you."
"I am a better investor because I am a businessman, and a better businessman because I am no investor."
"You should invest in a business that even a fool can run, because someday a fool will."
"If you aren't willing to own a stock for ten years, don't even think about owning it for ten minutes. Put together a portfolio of companies whose aggregate earnings march upward over the years, and so also will the portfolio's market value."
"Remember that the stock market is manic-depressive."
"If the reason for doing something is that everyone else is doing it, it's not a good enough reason."
"Well, I think the biggest mistake is not learning the habits of saving properly early.
Because saving is a habit. And then, trying to get rich quick. It's pretty easy to get well-to-do slowly. But it's not easy to get rich quick."
"Focus on your customers and lead your people as though their lives depend on your success."
"When you build a bridge, you insist that it can carry 30,000 pounds, but you only drive 10,000-pound trucks across it. And that same principle works in investing."
"When you get to my age, you'll measure your success in life by how many of the people you want to have love you actually do love you. That's the ultimate test of how you've lived your life."
"Anything can happen in stock markets and you ought to conduct your affairs so that if the most extraordinary events happen, that you're still around to play the next day."
"Bad terminology is the enemy of good thinking."
"Knowing the edge of your competency is important. If you think you know more than you do, you will get in trouble."
"The big question about how people behave is whether they've got an Inner Scorecard or an Outer Scorecard. It helps if you can be satisfied with an Inner Scorecard."
"The best asset is your own self. You can become to an enormous degree the person you want to be."
"The critical investment factor is determining the intrinsic value of a business and paying a fair or bargain price."
"The thing to do is to keep your mind when the world around you is losing theirs."
"The ability to say no is a tremendous advantage for an investor."
"Never get too hung up on mistakes."
Writing a check separates a commitment from a conversation."
"We can afford to lose money - even a lot of money. But we can't afford to lose reputation - even a shred of reputation."
"Having a large amount of leverage is like driving a car with a dagger on the steering wheel pointed at your heart. If you do that, you will be a better driver. There will be fewer accidents but when they happen, they will be fatal!"
"A home is one of the most important assets that most people will ever buy. Homes are also where memories are made and you want to work with someone you can trust."
"Turnarounds seldom turn."
"A very rich person should leave his kids enough to do anything, but not enough to do nothing."
"I measure success by how many people love me. And the best way to be loved is to be lo veable."
"If you gave me $100 billion and said take away the soft drink leadership of Coca-Cola in the world, I'd give it back to you and say it can't be done."
"Most business mistakes are irreversible setbacks, but you get another chance. There are two things in life that you don't get another chance at - marrying the wrong person and what you do with your children."
"When I take a look at a company's annual report, if I don't understand it, they don't want me to understand it."
"Risk is a part of God's game, alike for men and nations."
"There is no perfect mathematical formula for pricing a business."
"A Company should be viewed as an unfolding movie, not as a still photograph."
"Traditional wisdom is long on tradition and short on wisdom."
"If you invested in a very low cost index fund — where you don't put the money in at one time, but average in over 10 years -you'll do better than 90% of people who start investing at the same time."
"Ignore the stock market, ignore the economy, and buy a business you understand."
"I'm happy when I can spend every day doing the things that I like to do. That's my luxury."
"Stocks are the only thing that people are happy to buy when the price goes up."
"Never lie under any circumstances."
"Investors should be skeptical of history-based models. Constructed by a nerdy-sounding priesthood using esoteric terms such as beta, gamma, sigma and the like, these models tend to look impressive. Too often, though, investors forget to examine the assumptions behind the models. Beware of geeks bearing formulas."
"The advice "you never go broke taking a profit" is foolish."
"I like to go for cinches. I like to shoot fish in a barrel. But I like to do it after the water has run out."
"Don't risk what is important to you, to get what is not important to you."
"I don't have my diploma from the University of Nebraska hanging on my office wall, and I don't have my diploma from Columbia up there either-but I do have my Dale Carnegie graduation certificate proudly displayed."
"Never be afraid to ask for too much when selling or offer too little when buying."
"There are three kinds of people: 1. Innovators. 2. Imitators. 3. Idiots."
"The key to investing is not assessing how much an industry is going to affect society, or how much it will grow, but rather determining the competitive advantage of any given company and, above all, the durability of that advantage."
"Investment decision should be made on the basis of the most probable compounding of after-tax net worth with minimum risk."
"An investor will succeed by coupling good business judgment with an ability to insulate his thoughts and behavior from the super-contagious emotions that swirl about the marketplace."
"If we have a strength, it is in recognizing when we are operating well within our circle of competence and when we are approaching the perimeter."
"Returns decrease as motion increases."
"Consciously paying more for a stock than its calculated value - in the hope that it can soon be sold for a still-higher price - should be labelled speculation."
"Many stock options in the corporate world have worked in exactly that fashion: they have gained in value simply because management retained earnings, not because it did well with the capital in its hands."
"Paradoxically, when 'dumb' money acknowledges its limitations, it ceases to be dumb."
"Take the job you would take if you were independently wealthy. You're going to do well at it."
"Well, it may be all right in practice, but it will never work in theory."
"I don't read economic forecasts. I don't read the funny papers."
"The business schools reward difficult complex behavior more than simple behavior, but simple behavior is more effective."
"It's never paid to bet against America."
"My job is essentially just corralling more and more and more facts and information, and occasionally seeing whether that leads to some action."