CHAPTER TWO
SPIRITUAL BIRTH
"Except one be born anew, he cannot see the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit." -John 3:3 & 6
"God is a Spirit, and they that worship him must worship in spirit.…." -John 4:24
We are spirits temporarily in bodies
Jesus' teaching about the nature of God and how we may worship God occurs in a most unlikely setting. These insights come during a private, one-on-one conversation with a Samaritan woman at a well. The well was located in a city in Samaria
called Sychar, near a parcel of land that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. The well was first made by Jacob, and is therefore considered to be sacred to Samaritans. It was about 6 p.m. and the conversation is recorded in John 4:7-24 as follows:
"There came a woman of Samaria to draw water, and Jesus said to her, 'Give me to drink.' His disciples were gone away to the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, 'How is it that you, being a Jew, ask drink from me, a Samaritan woman, for Jews have no dealings with Samaritans? Jesus answered and said to her, 'If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that said to you, 'Give me to drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water' The woman said to him, 'Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep, from where then have you that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank from it himself, and his sons, and his cattle?' Jesus answered and said to her, 'Every one that drinks this water shall thirst again, but whosoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. The woman said to him, 'Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come all the way here to draw. Jesus said to her, 'Go, call your husband, and come here. The woman answered and said to him, 'I have no husband.' Jesus said to her, "You said well, 'I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and he whom you now have is not your husband. This have you said truthfully. The woman said to him, 'Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, and yet you say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Jesus said to her, 'Woman, believe me, the hour comes when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem shall you worship the Father. You worship that which you do not know. We worship that which we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour comes, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth, for such does the Father seek to be his worshippers. God is a Spirit, and they that worship him must worship in spirit and truth." A profound teaching given in a humble setting and drawn out of Jesus by a truthful, if less than perfect, woman of non-Jewish training and beliefs. We can only surmise that this conversation was later recounted to one of Jesus' disciple by the Samaritan woman and recorded in this Gospel. When Jesus' disciples return to the well they were surprised to see him speaking with this Samaritan woman, but the gospel records that none of them asked him about why he was doing something so out of custom with the ways of the Jews and Samaritans.
Key to our study is Jesus' main point that the times have changed in such a manner that worshipping God is no longer occurring in sacred houses of worship, as the Temple, or at sacred sites, such as Jacob's well. The true worshippers will have to
get into the spirit in order to worship a God that is a spirit.
The first appearance of the term spirit occurs in the very first verses of the Bible, Genesis 1:2, "The earth was formless and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep; and the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters." This passage was written in Hebrew, and the word used here for "spirit" is the feminine noun Ruwach, derived from the root word for air, especially air that is being breathed, thus implying the breath of life. God's Spirit is life, as the air breathed gives us life. Six chapters later, in Genesis 6:3, the free-willed beings that God created in his own image and later out of the dust of the Earth have gotten so bad that God says, "My spirit shall not strive with man forever, for he also is flesh." Then God gives an age limit for the flesh part of man, "yet shall his days be a hundred and twenty years." implied in these passages is that the withdrew of God's spirit means death to our human side.
The New Testament was written in Greek. The first appearance of the term spirit is in Matthew 1:18 during a description of how the birth of Jesus came about: "Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows: When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found with child of the Holy Spirit." The original Greek word used here was Pneuma, primarily meaning the wind, but also related to the breathe. You'll recall in John 3:8 how Jesus uses this wind metaphor to help Nicodemus to better understand how we are to be born again of spirit: "The wind blows where it will, and you hear the voice of it, but do know from where it comes, and to where it goes, so is every one that is born of the Spirit." Wind is a poetic expression for the unseen force behind a manifested condition. We see the leaves and branches of a tree move and we know the unseen wind is the cause. But, like the spirit, the wind seems to come from out of nowhere and go on to wherever. The spirit is this free and ethereal.
In the scriptures, the spirit of God is both the source of life and of wisdom. In Job 33:4, Elihu acknowledges that "the spirit of God hath made me." And in Job 32:8-9 he explains that, "It is the spirit in a man, the breath of the Almighty, that makes him understand." In Genesis 41:38-39, Pharaoh, after being astonished by Joseph's wisdom, acknowledges that such wisdom only comes from God's spirit, "Can we find such a man as this, in whom is the spirit of God? Since God has shown you all this, there is none so discreet and wise as you are."
God's spirit with us is the emmanuel, "God with us," of the ancient prophecies. According to these prophecies, a messiah (literally, "anointed one") was to be sent from God into the Earth to awaken and bring salvation and resurrection to all the souls here. The disciple John begins his gospel with a poetic vision into the role and influence of this messiah. He begins his gospel, "In the beginning was the Word." Actually, in the origin Greek, this text reads, "In the beginning was the Logos.." Logos means much more than the English term "word." It means the divine, rational principle that governs and develops the universe. There is an incident in John's gospel where Jesus actually uses two Greek words for "word," giving emphasis to the greater meaning behind "logos." He is in an argument with the Pharisees and scribes of the Temple, and has made that famous statement, "Before Abraham was, I am." (8:58). Of course, he is speaking from the perspective of the logos, through which all was made. Here's his two "words" statement (8:43): "Why do you not understand my word /lalian]? It is because you cannot hear my word [logon, a form of logos]." It is clear that Jesus is drawing a distinction between words that are in speech and the source of truth and understanding, the Logos. Also, in the original Greek text there is no masculine pronoun in the initial sentences, therefore the text actually reads:
In the beginning was the logos, and the logos was with God, and the logos was God. This one was in the beginning with God. All things were made through this one. Without this one was not anything made that has been made. In this one was life; and the life was the light of humanity. And the light shines in the darkness; and the darkness does not apprehend it. There came a man, sent from God, whose name was John [the Baptist]. The same came as a witness, that he might bear witness to the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came that he might bear witness to the light. There was the true light, even the light which lights every person coming into the world [people already have the light to some degree, but it full potential awaits their enlightenment]. This one was in the world, and the world was made through this one, and the world knew him not. This one came to his own, and they that were his own did not received him. But as many as received him, to them gave he the right to become children of God, even to them that believe on his name: who were not born of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the logos became flesh, and dwelt among us; and we beheld its glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth.
This is such a inspired opening to the most mystical of the four gospels. But another gem behind this new understanding of "the Word" is in chapter 8:31. Here Jesus informs us that we can abide in the logos, and thereby receive the truth directly and be made free: "If you abide in my logos, then you are truly disciples of mine; and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." How is this done? How do we abide in the logos? The next three chapters reveal Jesus' teachings on this, teachings that are not often taught to us by those we rely on for spiritual insight and training. His approach is two-fold: raising our vibrations and then receiving the Spirit of Truth through our inner consciousness. Surprisingly, our physical nature is uniquely designed to awaken and give birth to our spiritual nature.