
Is there anyone doing Awareness?

Further considerations
Consider that thinking may be occurring completely in parallel to life. Perhaps thinking is nothing more than the mental chatter we add to reality. Before you learned a language as a small child, there was no thinking and life still happened just fine.
Whether there is thinking or not does not influence reality. Could that be true? Then what is the point of quieting or emptying the mind? We can simply let thinking be and pay it no attention.
There is nothing wrong with thinking per se. If there's a long stretch of thinking, that is just what is occurring. It's neither good nor bad unless we believe it is. Thinking is the result of automatic programming running on the hardware of the body.
Thinking is not completely useless of course. Useful thinking may happen spontaneously and appropriately, for example as a tool to communicate with others. But thinking about an imaginary separate self is rarely necessary.
Consider that the self itself is nothing more than a thought, the I-thought. This thought isn't controlled by any separate entity. The self-thought arises and disappears spontaneously like any other thought. If we're not thinking me-thoughts, there is no me!
Remember that a thought can't do anything, it has no power or agency. Therefore, this self we believe in so strongly is nothing more than a mental vibration without agency or volition. It's only a repetitive thought pattern. The self is a mental loop in love with itself, selfing automatically on endless repeat.
We only feel the me is robust and important because we have been taught to give it all our attention. Me-thoughts make us feel individual and special. No-self is not a popular proposition to the selting loop!

# Is there anything substantial in experience?

• Is anything we experience substantial?
• Are there any separate entities or objects out there beyond our concepts of them?
• How would you prove something is substantial?
• All we have are our raw sense perceptions.
• Don't things only exist in language, in our names for them?
• We thingity reality.
• Without naming anything, there is only a seamless, formless appearance of sense perceptions from the sense organs (images, sounds, feelings, thoughts, etc.).
• Check to see if this is true.
• Take a moment to look around.
• Now drop all labels for anything occurring in experience.
• Drop the label of dropping labels as well.
• If any new concept comes up, drop the label for that too.
• Notice that there is no self to be found in this appearance either. If the label self comes up, drop that label.
• Take the position of there not being any separate things and there not being a separate self.
• See how experience shows up from that position.
• There is nothing substantial in experience. At the same time, there's always already a continual stream of Aliveness.
• You can't filter Presence out from experience because it has no substance and it's not a thing.
• You can't get into it and you can't get out of it because
YOU ALREADY ARE IT.
• This ever-present Awareness is more substantial than the insubstantial content appearing within it, as it is always there, while all so-called things come and go.
